{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2868
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPS-BoldMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red29\green29\blue29;\red255\green255\blue255;\red99\green99\blue99;
\red26\green26\blue26;\red27\green95\blue144;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c14902\c14902\c14902;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c46275\c46275\c46275;
\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c12549\c45098\c63137;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Assignment 2\
\
Assignment Instructions\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf5 \cb3 This assignment is designed to help you get set up with your development environment and to get you development node.js server running and interacting with the JavaScript console. It also gives me a chance to get to know you a little better, too!\cf2 \cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Please consider the following guidelines:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Do not copy the solution of someone else and turn it in as your solution. Solve the tasks on your own!\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Look at the source code of other sites when you need help.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 You can find the template for this assignment in the following repository: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/Web-Programming-SS2026/A02"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \ul \ulc6 https://github.com/Web-Programming-SS2026/A02}}\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs56 \cf2 \cb3 Setup\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Open your command line and navigate to the repository/source code (i.e.\'a0the directory containing a\'a0package.json\'a0file).\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Run\'a0
\f1\b npm install
\f0\b0 \'a0to install the packages required to run the web server.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Run\'a0
\f1\b npm start
\f0\b0 \'a0to start the web server. You should see a message saying that the server has started.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Your web server is now running. Point your browser to\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://localhost:1930/"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \ul \ulc6 localhost:1930}}. You should see the assignment page. This confirms that your environment is all set up! (You might briefly see an error message on the page while it loads the JavaScript. The error should disappear quickly; if it persists, follow the instructions on screen to try to identify the issue.)\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Directory structure of the starter files:\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 Here\'92s a quick overview of the files and folders in the\'a0assign0\'a0directory. This will largely be the same for other assignments.\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
lib:\'a0Contains code that is provided. You will not have to modify any files in this folder.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
package.json:\'a0Defines information about the project, such as its dependencies. You won\'92t have to manually edit this file. For your final project, you may add dependencies using\'a0npm, and these will be added to\'a0package.json\'a0automatically.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
public:\'a0Contains the files served to your browser by the web server. For the first part of the course, all of the files you will edit will be in this folder. This assignment contains two files,\'a0index.html\'a0(which you won\'92t have to edit) and\'a0survey.js\'a0(where you will fill in your answers).\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
server.js:\'a0The code to run the web server. You won\'92t have to edit this until we start working on server-side JavaScript, later in the course.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
node_modules\'a0and\'a0package-lock.json:\'a0These don\'92t exist at first, but are created when you first run\'a0
\f1\b npm install
\f0\b0 . They contain the dependencies themselves and information about what was installed. You neither will need to nor should you edit them. It is safe to delete them and rerun\'a0
\f1\b npm install
\f0\b0 \'a0(useful if copying/zipping the folder, as\'a0node_modules\'a0can be quite large).\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs56 \cf2 \cb3 Task\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The page that loads is quite bare. Rather than interact with the page itself, we will focus on using the JavaScript console.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 To open the console, either press F12 to open the DevTools panel and choose Console, or press Ctrl+Shift+J (on Windows and Linux) or Command+Option+J (on Mac) to open the console directly.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 You should see a message in the console that the page has loaded, followed by a warning that an answer is missing. (You may also see a message that the browser couldn\'92t load\'a0favicon.ico. It is safe to ignore that message.)\cb1 \
\
\cb3 To fill in your answers, use your text editor to open the\'a0
\f1\b \cf2 survey.js
\f0\b0 \cf2 \'a0file in the\'a0public\'a0folder. The file is structured as a series of variable assignments, with each variable currently having the value\'a0
\f1\b \cf2 TODO
\f0\b0 \cf2 . Fill in your answers by replacing the\'a0
\f1\b \cf2 TODO
\f0\b0 \cf2 s, using the comments above each variable as a guide to what we\'92re asking.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 When you save\'a0
\f1\b \cf2 survey.js
\f0\b0 \cf2 , the browser should automatically refresh. The console message should change, pointing out any answers that are still missing. (It can be hard to tell that the page has refreshed; if you\'92re not sure, you can enable \'93Persist log\'94 by clicking on the gear icon in the top right of the console to prevent the console from clearing on refresh.)\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Once you have filled in all your answers, the console message should change. It will show you your answers in the form of a JavaScript object. You can expand the object by clicking on it.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 There will also be an instruction to call\'a0
\f1\b \cf2 saveAnswers()
\f0\b0 \cf2 . This is a final check to make sure everything is working as expected. Type\'a0
\f1\b \cf2 saveAnswers()
\f0\b0 \cf2 \'a0in the console (within your browser), press Enter, and you should see a message that, \'93You\'92re all set!\'94. You should also see that a file called\'a0
\f1\b \cf2 answers.json
\f0\b0 \cf2 \'a0has been created in your root\'a0folder, containing the answers object.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 What\'92s happening here?\cb1 \
\cb3 There are a few moving parts in play here. We wanted to test a few different parts of the environment setup to try to reduce the issues that might come up later. You don\'92t need to understand the inner workings here, but if you are interested, here\'92s an overview:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The logic for the page is contained in\'a0
\f1\b lib/client/assignment.js
\f0\b0 . This script will\'a0
\f1\b import
\f0\b0 \'a0your\'a0
\f1\b survey.js
\f0\b0 . It doesn\'92t use the import syntax we will use in lecture because we don\'92t want syntax errors in\'a0
\f1\b survey.js
\f0\b0 \'a0to stop the script from running.\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The script goes through the variables in\'a0
\f1\b survey.js
\f0\b0 \'a0and collects them all into an object. It stores that object in a variable so\'a0that 
\f1\b saveAnswers
\f0\b0 \'a0can read them.\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0
\f1\b \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
saveAnswers
\f0\b0 \'a0makes an HTTP request to the Node.js server, sending the object of responses to the server side. The code for the server, in\'a0
\f1\b lib/server/assignment.js
\f0\b0 , takes that object and writes it to\'a0
\f1\b answers.json
\f0\b0 .\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Note that the web browser and client code can\'92t directly write to a file on your hard drive. That is why we use a \'93round trip\'94 of asking the server to do this write. (We also want to test that the server is able to respond to the request and write the file.)\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs56 \cf2 \cb3 Submission\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Download or clone the repository ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/Web-Programming-SS2026/A02"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \ul \ulc6 https://github.com/Web-Programming-SS2026/A02}}) into your IDE and solve the task.\cb1 \
\ls5\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Compress your 
\f1\b answers.json
\f0\b0  into a ZIP-file.\cb1 \
\ls5\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Upload your ZIP file here in Blackboard.}